                      
                      <<<<<#SQL & RDBMS Interview Questions >>>


#Series: 1️⃣
Level: Beginner
Topics:

1️⃣ Introduction to RDBMS
2️⃣ Normalisation
3️⃣ Introduction to SQL
4️⃣ Tables and Fields
5️⃣ Constraints
6️⃣ Index
7️⃣ DML Operations
8️⃣ Joins
9️⃣ Set Operations

1️⃣ Introduction to RDBMS

✪ What is a Database?
✪ What are different types of Databases?
✪ What is DBMS?
✪ What is difference between Database and DBMS?
✪ What is RDBMS?
✪ Which are popular RDBMS vendors?
✪ What is ACID property in Database?

2️⃣ Normalisation

✪ What is Normalisation?
✪ Why is Normalisation necessary?
✪ What are the disadvantages of not performing Normalisation?
✪ What are different Normal Forms (NF)?
✪ What is Denormalisation?

3️⃣ Introduction to SQL

✪ What is SQL?
✪ What is the use of SQL?
✪ Is SQL a programming language?
✪ Which languages are part of SQL? (DDL, DML, DCL, TCL)
✪ What is DDL?
✪ What is DCL?
✪ What is DML?
✪ What is TCL?

4️⃣ Tables and Fields

✪ What is a Table?
✪ What is a field in a Table?
✪ Write a SQL command to create a Table.
✪ How to change the name of a Table?
✪ How to truncate a table?
✪ How to drop a table?

5️⃣ Constraints

✪ What is a constraint?
✪ What are different levels of constraints?
✪ Give examples of various constraints?
✪ What is a primary key?
✪ What is a unique key?
✪ Difference between a primary key and a unique key.
✪ What is a foreign key?

CREATE TABLE Orders (
    OrderID int NOT NULL,
    OrderNumber int NOT NULL,
    PersonID int,
    PRIMARY KEY (OrderID),
    CONSTRAINT FK_PersonOrder FOREIGN KEY (PersonID)
    REFERENCES Persons(PersonID)
);

✪ What is NULL value?
✪ What is NOT NULL constraint?
✪ Is blank space or Zero (0) same as NULL?

6️⃣ Index

✪ What is an index?
✪ What are different types of Indexes?
✪ What is the unique index?
✪ What is clustered index?
✪ What is non-clustered index?
✪ What is the difference between clustered and non-clustered index?

7️⃣ DML Operations

✪ How to insert rows into a table?
✪ How to update data in a table?
✪ How to delete a row in a table?
✪ Difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE?
✪ How to fetch rows of a table?
✪ What is a query condition? How to write it in SQL?
✪ How to sort the fetched records?
✪ What is grouping? How to write in SQL?
✪ How to find how many records being fetched?
✪ How to find maximum and minimum value for a field in fetched records?
✪ How to sum values in a field for all records?

8️⃣ Joins

✪ What is a join?
✪ What are different types of joins?
✪ What is Inner Join?
✪ What is a Self Join?
✪ What is Left Outer Join?
✪ What is Right Outer Join?
✪ What is Full Outer Join?
✪ What is Cross Join?

9️⃣ Set Operations

✪ What is UNION?
✪ What is UNION ALL?
✪ What is INTERSECTION?
✪ What is MINUS?


Series 2 
Level: Beginner 2
Topics:

1️⃣ Data Types
2️⃣ Operators
3️⃣ Functions
4️⃣ Views
5️⃣ Aggregation

1️⃣ Data Types

* Data Types vary across SQL Vendors like Oracle, MySQL etc. So questions are specific to particular vendors.

✪ When do you define data type of a column?
✪ Can a data type be changed later? What are the restrictions?
✪ What are different numeric data types?
✪ What data type is used to store a boolean?
✪ What data type is used to store bits?
✪ What data type is used for integers?
✪ What data type is used for floating point numbers?
✪ What are different String data types?
✪ What data type is used to store binary data?
✪ What is the difference between CHAR, VARCHAR and VARCHAR2 (Oracle)?
✪ What is a Large Object Data Type?
✪ What are different Large Object Data Types?
✪ What is the difference between BLOB and CLOB?
✪ When should you go for a large object data type instead of a String data type?
✪ What are different Date/Time Data Types?

2️⃣ Operators

✪ What operator to use to verify if all subqueries meet the condition?
✪ What operator to use to verify if any of the subqueries meet the condition?
✪ What operator to use to check if operand is within a range?
✪ What operator to use to check if operand should one of the given values.
✪ What operator to use to check if a subquery returns at least one record?
✪ What operator to use to check if operand matches a pattern?
✪ What is the difference between BETWEEN and IN operators?
✪ What is the difference between = and LIKE operator?
✪ How to check if a field is containing a NULL value?
✪ What are different comparison operators?
✪ What is the operator to check for not equality?

3️⃣ Functions

✪ What is a SQL function?
✪ What function to use to return current system date and time?
✪ What function to use to find length of a text field?
✪ What function to use to convert a text field to upper/lower case?
✪ How to get a substring?
✪ What are different format options to display a text field?
✪ How to round a numeric field to certain precision?
✪ Give examples of some Date/Time functions?
✪ How to get the year/month/date from a Date field?
✪ How to get last day of the month?
4️⃣ Views

✪ What is a View?
✪ How is a View different from a Table?
✪ What are various use cases of a View?
✪ Can a View be used to insert/delete records?
✪ How to create/update a View?
✪ What is "WITH CHECK OPTIONS"?
✪ What is a Materialised View? Difference with a View?

5️⃣ Aggregation

✪ What do you mean by aggregation?
✪ What is the difference between aggregation and projection?
✪ What does "GROUP BY" statement do?
✪ What is the difference between WHERE and HAVING?
✪ Is "ORDER BY" an aggregation statement?
✪ What function to use to find number of records?
✪ What function to use fetch the first/last value for a field?
✪ What function to use to fetch max/min/average value of a field?
✪ What function to use to find summation of all values for a field?


Purple heart SQL Interview Questions [3]

⇰ DDL
⇰ DML
⇰ Sequence
⇰ Synonym
⇰ Trigger

1️⃣ DDL

✪ Give some examples of DDL commands
✪ Write syntax of creating a table
✪ How to specify default value for a column?
✪ How to specify a foreign key?
✪ How to specify a unique key?
✪ How to specify multiple columns as primary key?
✪ What are different constraints you can add to a column while creating a table?
✪ How to create a copy of a table? (both structure and, data)
✪ You have 'n' tables and asked to create a separate table which will contain few columns from these tables with data being copied.
✪ What is SELECT INTO used for? (In SQL Server)
✪ Difference between ALTER and RENAME
✪ Can a previously nullable column be altered to a NOT NULL column? If yes, explain the steps.


2️⃣ #DML

✪ What are different syntax for inserting records into a table?
✪ What is the syntax to insert multiple records at a time?
✪ Explain how DML operations are performed on a View. Or, View is for SELECT queries only?
✪ How to insert rows into a table?
✪ How to update data in a table?
✪ How to delete a row in a table?
✪ Difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE?
✪ How to fetch rows of a table?
✪ What is a query condition? How to write it in SQL?
✪ How to sort the fetched records?
✪ What is grouping? How to write in SQL?
✪ How to find how many records being fetched?
✪ How to find maximum and minimum value for a field in fetched records?
✪ How to sum values in a field for all records?


3️⃣ Sequence

✪ What is a sequence? Why is it useful?
✪ Write syntax for creating a syntax.
✪ What does a sequence return?
✪ How to fetch the value from a sequence?
✪ Can a sequence definition be changed once after creating? What is the syntax?
✪ What details we can pass while creating a sequence?
✪ What details of a sequence can be changed?
✪ How to reset a sequence?


4️⃣ Synonym

✪ What is a synonym?
✪ Why is synonym useful?
✪ For which all database objects, a synonym can be created?
✪ Write syntax for creating a synonym.
✪ What is a public and private synonym?
✪ Can a private synonym be changed to public and vice versa later?
✪ How to change definition of a synonym?
✪ What all details can be changed for a synonym?


5️⃣ Trigger

✪ What is a trigger?
✪ Describe how a trigger functions.
✪ Write syntax for creating a trigger.
✪ What are different types of triggers?
✪ Give examples of some events (operations) for which a trigger can be run.
✪ Describe a BEFORE trigger.
✪ Describe an AFTER trigger.
✪ Describe an INSTEAD OF trigger.
✪ What can an INSTEAD OF trigger do?
✪ How to use a view for all DML operations using a trigger? Describe.


------------Work in progresss--------------------


